Connecting pfSense to an OpenVPN Access Server
==============================================

This guide will be a step by step walk through of how to get a pfSenseÂ®
client connecting to OpenVPN AS (Access Server). The *.ovpn* file it
generates is a bit odd so we will walk through how to extract the parts
needed and where to put them into the pfSense software.

The guide will mainly focus on the pfSense router side of it, but will
touch on some basics of installing OpenVPN AS package.

OpenVPN AS vs Community OpenVPN
-------------------------------

OpenVPN AS is the commercial version, that can be deployed via package
on multiple Linux Distro's, Virtual Appliance or Cloud services like
Amazon.

It comes with 2 licenses, so this makes handy for personal use be it
simple package install on a low-end vps or deployed directly on a VPS AS
appliance.

Why pay for a VPN connection, when a low-end VPS in pretty much any part
of the world can be obtained for a year for quite often the cost of some
VPN providers monthly fee.

Getting and installing AS
-------------------------

Packages for favorite Linux Distros can be gotten here:
https://openvpn.net/index.php/access-server/download-openvpn-as-sw.html

SSH to a VPS
------------

In this example its a low end 128MB with Ubuntu 14.04 32bit. Make sure
it has tun/tap VPN support - not all VPS types have this.

As you can see here.. Logged in as root, use *wget* to grab the package,
install the package with *dpkg* and then set the password on the OpenVPN
account it creates.

.. image:: /_static/vpn/openvpn/instopenvpnas.png
   :align: center

Go to the OpenVPN URL it lists
------------------------------

First go to the admin URL it provides - we are going set the profile to
autologin and then grab the *.ovpn* file to extra info to put in to
pfSense router. You can validate that the VPN works with either a normal
OpenVPN client or the connect client that is available to download when
you hit the given URL and login for *admin*.

Login with the OpenVPN account with the changed password, then set
permissions on the account to autologin. Make sure to save that and then
it will ask to update the running server - click OK.

.. image:: /_static/vpn/openvpn/autologinopenvpnas.png
   :align: center

Logout and go back to the main non-admin URL and login again and you
will see the autologin profile to download

.. image:: /_static/vpn/openvpn/downloadprofile.png
   :align: center

This is a good time to validate it is working by using that *.ovpn*
configuration on a machine running the OpenVPN client or use the connect
client downloaded at the same URL.

It is now possible to connect and go to a site that reports the client
IP address, such as http://checkip.dyndns.org/, which should show the IP
address of the VPN server to confirm that the client traffic is using
the VPN. Once that is working, the pfSense router may be configured to
use the info in the *.ovpn* file

Credits
-------

Thanks to this great post https://forum.netgate.com/post/67545

