Snort IP Address Reputation Preprocessor
========================================

This tab allows configuration of the parameters specific to the IP
Reputation preprocessor on the interface. It also allows the assignment
of blacklist and whitelist files of IP addresses to the interface.

The available fields are:

**Enable:** when checked, the IP Reputation preprocessor is active on
this Snort instance.

**Memory Cap:** sets the amount of system memory in megabytes (MB) to
reserve for storage of the IP lists associated with this preprocessor.
The default is 500 MB and should be sufficient for most installations.

**Scan Local:** when checked, Snort will include RFC 1918 IP addresses
ranges when comparing IP addresses to the blacklists and whitelists. If
an RFC 1918 IP addresses is in the whitelist files, or some are
blacklist files, then this option should be enabled. The default is
disabled.

**Nested IP:** this tells Snort which IP address to compare to the IP
lists in the whitelist and blacklist files when there is IP
encapsulation. The default is **Inner**.

**Priority:** instructs Snort which IP list has priority when the source
and destination IP addresses of a packet are each on separate IP lists.
For example, if the source IP address is on a blacklist while the
destination IP address is on a whitelist, this option tells Snort
whether to block the traffic if blacklist has priority, or pass the
traffic if whitelist has priority.

**Whitelist Meaning:** this tells Snort what action to take with
whitelisted IP addresses. The two options are **Un-black** and
**Trust**. When set to **Un-black**, a blacklisted IP which is listed in
the whitelist is not immediately blocked. Instead it is routed through
the Snort detection engine for normal inspection. If it generates no
alerts, the traffic is allowed. If the inspection results in a Snort
alert for the traffic, it will be blocked.

When set to **Trust**, any IP address on the whitelist (including any
that may also be on a blacklist) is immediately allowed to pass with no
further inspection. Caution should be exercised when using the Trust
mode of operation to insure the IP addresses on the whitelist are in
fact trustworthy.

.. image:: /_static/ids-ips/snortipreputationpreproc.png
   :align: center

The |fa-plus| and |fa-trash| icons at the bottom of the page
are used to assign or remove blacklist and whitelist files to or from
the interface.

Click the |fa-plus| icon to open a file selection dialog.
Choose an IP list file from the list by clicking on the name.

.. image:: /_static/ids-ips/snortipreputationpreprocassignlist.png
   :align: center
