Snort Suppression Lists
=======================

Alert Thresholding and Suppression
----------------------------------

**Suppression Lists** allow control over the alerts generated by Snort
rules. When an alert is suppressed, then Snort no longer logs an alert
entry (or blocks the IP address if block offenders is enabled) when a
particular rule fires. Snort still inspects all network traffic against
the rule, but even when traffic matches the rule signature, no alert
will be generated. This is different from disabling a rule. When a rule
is disabled, Snort no longer tries to match it to any network traffic.
Suppressing a rule might be done in lieu of disabling the rule to stop
alerts based on either the source or destination IP. For example, to
suppress the alert when traffic from a particular trusted IP address is
the source. If any other IP is the source or destination of the traffic,
the rule may still be desired. To eliminate all alerts from the rule,
then it is more efficient to simply disable the rule rather than to
suppress it. Disabling the rule will remove it from the list of match
rules in Snort and therefore makes for less work Snort has to do.

.. image:: /_static/ids-ips/pfsense-2-3-suppress-list.png
   :align: center

On the Suppress List Edit page, suppress lists may be manually added or
edited. It is usually easier and faster to add suppress list entries by
clicking the |fa-plus| icons shown with the alert entries on the
**Alerts** tab. Remember to click the **SAVE** button to save changes
when manually editing Suppress List entries.

.. image:: /_static/ids-ips/pfsense-2-3-suppress-list-detail.png
   :align: center

Lists with comments are easier to manipulate and fine tune. Neither
screen shot shows IP address suffix in a suppress entry.

.. image:: /_static/ids-ips/snortsuppresslistedit.png
   :align: center
