Troubleshooting Low Interface Throughput
========================================

In situations where the firewall is not transferring as much data as desired.
There are many potential causes for this condition, most of which are listed
here along with possible resolutions

Insufficient Hardware
---------------------

The first thing to check is that the hardware is capable of pushing the expected
amount of traffic. In some cases this is more obvious, such as a newer
multi-core server being unable to transfer small amounts of packets, or an older
firewall not being able to transfer high loads. Other cases are more subtle and
require some testing and verification.

The most obvious test is to watch the firewall CPU load while transferring data.
This can be observed from **Diagnostics > System Activity** or from the shell by
running::

  top -aSH

If an IRQ process for a network card is using a significant amount of CPU on a
core, then either the hardware is being fully (or over) utilized, or the driver
may need adjustments to work as expected. If the firewall is not under any
stress whatsoever while transferring data, the problem likely lies elsewhere.

If the amount of "System" CPU is high and the amount of interrupts is low, the
problem may be in the amount of packet processing happening in pf or being used
for encryption. If pf is pushing the CPU as high as it can, it may require a
faster CPU.

If the CPU is being used for encryption, a faster cipher may be chosen, or in
some cases a cryptographic accelerator may be utilized.

Hardware/Driver Tuning Required
-------------------------------

If a CPU core is fully utilized by interrupts, the network card driver may need
tuning. Most of these tweaks are covered on :doc:`Tuning and Troubleshooting
Network Cards </hardware/tuning-and-troubleshooting-network-cards>`. Some cards,
such as igb, are able to use more queues for processing packets which will
spread the load across multiple cores and result in higher throughput, but not
every workload is helped by these options, so less queues may also help.

Another item to check is under **System > Advanced** on the **Networking** tab.
Ensure that the boxes are checked for **Disable hardware TCP segmentation
offload** and **Disable hardware large receive offload**. If they are already
checked, try toggling **Disable hardware checksum offload**. If no difference is
observed, toggle it back.

Duplex Mismatch
---------------

A duplex mismatch is also possible, though this is more common on circuits
100Mbit/s or less. Some providers are stuck in the stone age and still insist on
hard-coding ports on CPEs such as fiber converters at *100Mbit/s full-duplex*.
If the CPE is hard-coded but the firewall is not, it would show as using
100Mbit/s half-duplex on **Status > Interfaces**. The duplex mismatch will lead
to interface errors, collisions, and low throughput. Setting the speed and
duplex is covered on :doc:`Forcing Interface Speed or Duplex Settings
</interfaces/forcing-interface-speed-or-duplex-settings>`.

Traffic Shaping
---------------

If the traffic shaping wizard was run previously before an increase in upstream
bandwidth, the old limits may still be in effect. Visit **Firewall > Traffic
Shaper** and check the root interface queues, and *qInternet* queues to ensure
that any listed interface bandwidths are appropriately specified and current.

Also check the **Limiters** tab under the traffic shaper settings, verify that
any configured limiters are set for appropriate speeds. Limiters may also need
increased queue lengths to handle higher throughput volumes.

MTU Issues
----------

Issues with upload speed frequently end up being issues with the MTU. If the MTU
on pfSenseÂ® software (default 1500), is higher than the MTU of the upstream link, it can
result in packets being fragmented, lost, or otherwise mishandled. Setting MSS
clamping on the WANs or changing the MTU of the interface may help.

VPN + MTU Issues
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Similar to the above, if large packets or high-throughput seems to break over a
VPN, enable MSS Clamping for VPN Networks under **VPN > IPsec**, **Advanced
Settings** tab. The default value for the option is ``1400``, but try lower
values such as ``1350``, ``1300``, ``1250``, etc.

WAN Connection
--------------

There could also be issues between the WAN and the Modem/CPE. It could be a
cable, or a quirk in how the two interfaces talk to each other. Place a small
switch between the firewall and the Modem/CPE as a test.

Client/Testing Method
---------------------

The slowness may not be from any cause on the firewall. It could be the client
itself or how it connects. Testing a 100Mbit/s WAN over 802.11g wireless, for
example, would never show full speed. Testing a 300Mbit/s WAN from a 100Mbit/s
LAN connection would likewise not be a valid test.

Ensure the client is connected to the firewall through a connection at least as
fast as the WAN supports.

ISP Issues
----------

If every other factor has been eliminated, test the modem without the firewall
involved. If the speed is still low, it may be the ISP to blame, or the
Modem/CPE.
